In a few seconds, you're going to see me
take on the Pathways level two
introduction to mentorship speech that I
did today at my Toastmasters club. But
before we go to that video, if you
haven't taken on this speech yet and
you're wondering how you should be
preparing for it, you're going to want
to check out this video that is popping
up right now because I break down all of
the things you should be thinking about
before you take on that speech. Okay,
let's dive into the speech and then
afterwards we'll dissect the
evaluations. We'll analyze what I did
well, what I can improve on for the
future. One of my best friends gave a
speech at my wedding. And prior to
giving the speech, he did a little bit
of research. He asked my closest
friends, 20 of them, to give him one
word that they would use to describe me.
One friend, who isn't my wife, I'll
point out, chose to use the word
beautiful.
I don't know why there's a surprised
look on some of your faces right now. It
was my friend Jordan, and that was a
questionable response, but I'll take it.
Other words that were used were nice,
enthusiastic,
and loyal. But there was one word that
was used more than any others by my 20
friends. 50% of them use the word
genuine to describe me. When we think
about mentorship, often we think about
lessons learned in a boardroom or an
office by a boss or a colleague. But if
I think about this word that half of my
closest friends used to describe me, I
realized that this was something that
was ingrained at me in me much earlier
than my working days. And it was
ingrained in me by my parents. Madame
Toastmaster, fellow Toast Masters and
our welcome guest, Sarah. In 2005, I was
sitting in our living room in Taber,
Alberta. I was sitting on the couch
beside my sister and my brother and my
mom was sitting on the love seat and my
dad was in the corner in a recliner and
there were balloons throughout the
living room and a banner on the wall
that said, "Congrats on your
retirement." We were celebrating as a
family my dad's retirement. and he was
sharing stories throughout his career of
owning a small business. And I'll never
forget my mom asked him a question. She
said, "Tom, what is one lesson that
you've learned throughout your career
that you think would be beneficial to
the kids to learn as they enter their
working days?" My dad thought about it
for a little while and then he
responded,
"Attitude isn't the most important
thing. It's everything." And that is
something that stuck with me throughout
my career. And I think about some of the
tough times where things haven't gone
according to plan. A schmazle you might
say.
And during that chaos, it's really easy
to lean into negativity or to join the
gossip conversations. But it's that
reminder from my dad's quote that during
this time I really need to lean into a
positive attitude and be the exception.
And on the flip side, sometimes things
are going really well at work. You get
that promotion. You land that new role,
but then the insecurity sets in. The
imposttor syndrome. But once again, the
reminder that attitude is everything.
The skills can be learned, the
experience will happen, but what's the
controllable here? It's my attitude. And
it's funny because I've given so much
credit throughout the years to that
quote that my dad gave. But in preparing
for this speech on mentorship, I finally
connected the dot that while that's
great advice, it was my mom and her
daily examples that actually shaped the
form of what that attitude looks like.
And she taught me by example in three
ways. The first is my mom is a great
listener. When you talk to my mom, it
feels like there is nobody else in the
world. She gives you her full attention.
She looks directly at you. She smiles.
She nods. She asks follow-up questions.
And again, I didn't make this connection
previously, but I went on to study
journalism. I've hosted more than 250
podcast episodes.
I've done a lot of listening. I've asked
a lot of questions and in thinking about
it, I think I realized that I feel so
good when I talk to my mom and that's
what drives me to want to interview and
ask other people questions. The second
thing my mom taught me from a young age
was the importance of being kind, being
polite, being nice, which is what some
of my friends identified with the word
nice. I remember in fourth grade I would
phone my friend's house and I would say,
"Hello, Mrs. Beckering. How are you
doing today? May I please speak to Ross?
And that might seem like not a big deal,
but if you contrast that to my friends
who were phoning my house, uh, is Wade
there? It stood out. And my mom taught
me that no matter who it is that you're
talking to, to treat them with respect,
to show a genuine interest in them. And
then the third lesson my mom taught me
wasn't around the kitchen table or on
drives to school. It was in a shopping
mall of all places. When I'd go shopping
with my mom, I'd get to go in a few
stores for myself and then it was mom's
turn and it was brutal. We'd go into
women's clothing stores and then my mom
loves to try everything on. So, this
would mean I would have to sit just
outside the fitting room on those seats.
And this was before the time of cell
phones. I didn't have a Game Boy. I
wasn't interested in those women's
fashion magazines. So, I'd have to sit
there on the chair and wait for her. And
my mom would come out and I would say,
"Mom, this is so boring." And she said,
"Wade, I'm teaching you patience." And
believe it or not, your future partner
will thank me for this. [laughter]
And you can ask my wife Shireen, she
does thank my mom on a regular basis cuz
I am a treat to go shopping with.
But also, this patience has transcended
into my regular life, making big
decisions. I don't rush with those gut
instincts. I think about it. And then
through business and my career as well,
having the patience to make solid
decisions.
I've been doing a lot of thinking about
raising my daughter. She's 8 months now.
And I think about the person that she's
going to become, some of the traits that
I maybe hope she embodies.
And I think if she is somebody who is a
good listener, who is kind to others,
who has patience, but most importantly
is genuine, is authentic to herself, I
will have done my job, not only as a
father, but also as a mentor. Thank you.
[applause]
All right, there you have it. Overall, I
was quite pleased with how this speech
went. I know there were a couple issues
with the audio and the microphone. I
might have to upgrade my mic at some
point.
The structure was really well done, I
thought. And that was something that my
evaluator had pointed out as well. She
liked that there was the introduction,
that the speech came full circle at the
end, and then that I included both my
father and my mother and had three
things so it was easy to keep in mind.
the idea of being a good listener, being
kind, and being patient as some of the
core values there along with
authenticity.
So, that was nice to hear that she
appreciated that. She talked about the
fact stories were embedded with each of
these examples.
And what my evaluator also pointed out
was the body language. And this is one
thing I've been trying to push myself to
do more at my local Toastmasters club,
and I'd love for you to do this as well.
Some of us are on hybrid or virtual
meetings. So, our speaking space is a
little bit limited. But at our club, in
this particular meeting, there was no
one who joined us on Zoom. Usually,
we're a hybrid meeting, but we didn't
have anyone joining us. And that's an
opportunity. And so, what I tried to do
is step out into that middle area. The
downside, and this was pointed out in
one of the feedback slips I got from my
fellow Toast Masters, is when you do
this, you may be putting your back to
certain people as you're talking. I
still think the benefit outweighs the
downside of creating an immersive
experience, but it is a little bit
daunting. When you're moving closer to
your audience and you're facing them,
you're standing in the middle of them.
It can be an intimidating feeling. I've
personally been trying to challenge
myself to do that more often and I think
this speech in the living room example
gave a perfect opportunity for that.
Now, with that said, I think there were
things that I could improve upon. And
one of the things my evaluator pointed
out was the opportunity for more vocal
variety. And in watching back some of my
speeches, perhaps you've seen some of
the ones I've been showcasing on this
channel, I've noticed that my voice does
go quite low sometimes. And the
challenge there is that not everyone in
the room can hear it. And that's okay to
do periodically to recapture the
audience's attention at a sad part in
the speech. But you want that base level
of your volume to be loud enough so that
people can hear you clearly throughout
most of the speech. And my evaluator
said there were more opportunities for
me to raise that voice and lower that
voice. And that could be done in the
future. I stumbled on a few words early
on. This is something probably that
wasn't too noticeable to you hopefully,
but I get in my head about it because I
know how I've practiced the speech and
then sometimes I stumble through the
words. So, I made a little note when I
sat down after giving the speech that
early on I did stumble over a few words.
And the other challenge I would give
myself is I've really been pushing
myself to
make the why of my speech about the
audience. And this speech felt a little
bit selfish for me. It was all about me.
I was talking about my mentorship
journey. I was talking about my future
and and my daughter and how I'll raise
her and all of those traits. It was a
very me me speech. And I think how I
could improve in the future is
remembering it's about the audience.
It's great for me to tell a story, but
how can I change that and give them the
full value of the message? And that is
one way. This wasn't pointed out in any
of the evaluation slips, but as I was
thinking through it, I think that that's
something I would have commented as an
evaluator that there's an opportunity
for me to make this even more about the
audience, which is going to help them
remember the key themes of the message.
I would love to hear your opinion. All
of you, your evaluators out there, what
did I do well? What could I improve
upon? Let's get the comments going. I
would love to hear your feedback and it
really helps me. The encouraging words
are nice to hear. I do get constructive
criticism from time to time in the
comments and that helps me level up as
well because the reality is we are all
students here. We are all part of Toast
Masters. We're all trying to elevate our
public speaking efforts. So, thank you
for watching this video. A couple
housekeeping pieces. If you ever want to
work with me, if you want me to evaluate
one of your speeches, if you want to do
an even more premium offering of doing a
one-on-one Zoom call and have some
private coaching, or if you're
interested in one of my future speaker
accelerator programs,
send me an email. I'll also have a
standtore link in the description and
you can book those different services
directly through there. That is the
easiest way to do it. And then once
again, I mentioned this at the beginning
of the video. If you are planning on
doing your mentorship speech, which is
something all level two speakers have to
do, this is a mandatory speech for all
paths within the Pathways program.
There's a video popping up right now,
which will help you prepare for that
speech. It's the one I did just before
this. And then finally, the best way you
can support my channel, and it's
absolutely free, is subscribing and
turning on those notifications. And
those of you who tell your fellow club
members about my channel, that really
helps as well. Thanks so much. I'll
catch you on the next